W-19128919 agent fabric exchange GA - jh (#319)
mulesoft/docs-exchange: modules/ROOT/pages/to-create-an-asset.adoc

:imagesdir: ../assets/images/
:page-aliases: to-publish-an-asset.adoc

To share assets in an Anypoint Exchange private instance or the Exchange public portal, create an asset of that type.

The method for creating an asset depends on its type. Once the asset type is defined, it is permanent and can't be changed.

* For OAS, RAML, RAML fragments, agents, AsyncAPI, HTTP, WSDL, LLMs, MCP servers, rulesets, and custom assets, create the asset directly using the Exchange *Publish new asset* dialog.
* For an example or template, create each using the Mavenize feature in Anypoint Studio, and publish each to Exchange.
* For a connector, policy, example, or template, see xref:to-publish-assets-maven.adoc[Publish and Deploy Exchange Assets Using Maven].

> * You can also create REST APIs and API Spec Fragments using Anypoint Code Builder or Design Center and publish the API to Exchange.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You can also create REST APIs and API spec fragments using Anypoint Code Builder or Design Center and publish them to Exchange.
```

* Mule applications are published to Exchange from Anypoint Runtime Fabric and managed in Runtime Fabric, and are not visible in the Exchange user interface.
* External libraries are published to Exchange from the xref:to-publish-assets-maven.adoc[Exchange Maven Facade API] and managed with this API, and are not visible in the Exchange user interface.

Exchange fully supports RAML fragments. Currently, Exchange does not support importing and managing OAS 3.0 components as Exchange dependencies inside a specification.

== Create an Agent 
Agents are programs that perform tasks autonomously or semiautonomously. AI agents use the Agent2Agent (A2A) protocol to communicate and collaborate with each other to perform tasks.

> Agent schema files must be in JSON format. They define the structure and capabilities of the agent asset. When creating an agent asset, Upload the schema file you want to use.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Agent schema files are in JSON format. They define the structure and capabilities of the agent asset. Upload the schema file to use when creating an agent asset.
```

* Mule applications are published to Exchange from Anypoint Runtime Fabric and managed in Runtime Fabric, and are not visible in the Exchange user interface.
* External libraries are published to Exchange from the xref:to-publish-assets-maven.adoc[Exchange Maven Facade API] and managed with this API, and are not visible in the Exchange user interface.

Exchange fully supports RAML fragments. Currently, Exchange does not support importing and managing OAS 3.0 components as Exchange dependencies inside a specification.

> == Create an Agent 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[[create-agent]]
== Create an Agent 
```

* Mule applications are published to Exchange from Anypoint Runtime Fabric and managed in Runtime Fabric, and are not visible in the Exchange user interface.
* External libraries are published to Exchange from the xref:to-publish-assets-maven.adoc[Exchange Maven Facade API] and managed with this API, and are not visible in the Exchange user interface.

Exchange fully supports RAML fragments. Currently, Exchange does not support importing and managing OAS 3.0 components as Exchange dependencies inside a specification.

[[create-agent]]
== Create an Agent 
Agents are programs that perform tasks autonomously or semiautonomously. AI agents can use the Agent2Agent (A2A) protocol to communicate and collaborate with each other to perform tasks.

Agent schema files must be in JSON format. They define the structure and capabilities of the agent asset. When creating an agent asset, upload the schema file you want to use.

The required objects for an A2A spec are defined in the https://a2a-protocol.org/dev/specification/[A2A spec]. 

> If you create an agent using *Other* as the protocol type, the file must be json file. This card follows the structure of the A2A Spec without required properties.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you create an agent using *Other* as the protocol type, the file must be a JSON file. This card follows the structure of the A2A Spec without required properties.
```

. Select an option for *Lifecycle state*. The default is *Stable*.
. Select *Publish*.

== Create a Large Language Model
LLMs are large language models that define model metadata, capabilities, parameters, and usage policies for discovery and governance across Exchange.

. In Exchange, select *Publish new asset*.
. Enter a name for the asset.
. Select the *LLM* asset type from the dropdown list.

> . Enter the name of the platform and select it from the list.

Reviewer 2: Enter the name and select it? Does that mean platform names are prepopulated and if they enter a name, it starts autocompleting? How is that list populated?

Reviewer 2: Does it come from the schema file?

Author: Hi @valkyrie69, yes, you are correct that names are prepopulated and has autocompleting. There is no schema file.

. Select *Publish*.

> == Create a MCP Server

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[[create-mcp-server]]
== Create an MCP Server
```

MCP servers provide the protocols and specifications for seamless integration between different AI systems and tools.

> MCP server schema files must be in JSON format. They define the definition of the tools, the data structures they use, and authentication. When creating an MCP server asset, you upload the schema file you want to use.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
MCP server schema files are in JSON format. They define the definition of the tools, the data structures they use, and authentication. Upload the schema file to use when creating an MCP server asset.
```

. Select an option for *Lifecycle state*. The default is *Stable*.
. Select *Publish*.

[[create-llm]]
== Create a Large Language Model
To use an OpenAI LLM in your broker, you must have OpenAI LLM access in your organization. Configure the LLM asset using one of these methods:

* Automatic Publication: Define the LLM directly within the YAML configuration file in Anypoint Code Builder to automatically publish the LLM asset to Exchange.
* Manual Creation: Manually create the LLM asset in Exchange, and then reference it in the YAML configuration file within Anypoint Code Builder.

> It's possible to have more than one LLM assets in your organization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's possible to have more than one LLM asset in your organization.
```

. In Exchange, select *Publish new asset*.
. Enter a name for the asset.
. Select the *LLM* asset type from the dropdown list.
. Enter the name of the platform and select it from the list.
. Select *Publish*.

[[create-mcp]]
== Create an MCP Server
MCP servers provide the protocols and specifications for seamless integration between different AI systems and tools.

MCP server schema files are in JSON format. They define the definition of the tools, the data structures they use, and authentication. Upload the schema file to use when creating an MCP server asset.

> The minimum required properties for an MCP server schema file is `transport` over SSE or HTTP. If you declare `capabilities`, you must have all four capability flags: `tools`, `resources`, `prompts`, and `logging`. If you provide `tools`, `resources`, or `prompts`, each must have name and identifier fields.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The minimum required property for an MCP server schema file is `transport` over SSE or HTTP. If you declare `capabilities`, you must have all four capability flags: `tools`, `resources`, `prompts`, and `logging`. If you provide `tools`, `resources`, or `prompts`, each must have name and identifier fields.
```
